we are Ben's Jamie Barry and Mike the
guys are the hearts of sorted food in
this series of videos we look at some of
the most popular recipes that feature
Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce
shepherd's pie in my opinion is the
family dish but how do we make it out of
the ordinary well especially in parents
and a few other flavors this is going to
be special this recipe we've got a
selection of root vegetables will cook
those off in passata with some Lea &
Perrins Worcestershire sauce add our
lamb mince obviously the main base meat
of this dish and top of the creamy
mashed potatoes other cream perfect so
start with our root veg they did a bit
of shopping we look carrot onion celery
and garlic should I do this into the
left hand on the right hand both peeled
and diced if you do the same with those
two is this kind of dish you'd have a
home you're growing up with your family
definitely it seems to be one of those
things that you cook that's really nice
feeds a lot of people that's it it's
never something that I would order in a
restaurant because I don't think I've
ever seen you on a restaurant man I
don't think it's considered restaurant
fare it is more comforting for home but
there's no reason why it shouldn't
because the flavors and combinations are
Britain so onion and carrot going into
Errol and I've a gentle heat we're going
to start to cook those and sweat them up
we don't too much color autumn so gently
is the key I'm not going to eat your
garlic you take that I mean I'm aware
that I've been peeling this for quite a
long time so I might chop it
yeah just fingers first so time is fine
didn't garlic going in there also at
this stage is worth adding in a pinch of
salt well it does just draw some
moisture out of the onions they do that
celery come in demo and with a vegetable
stop when the pedicure a few minutes or
so allowed to go in as well
how much lamb was that and how many is
this going to serve so this is 500 grams
Atlantic's how easy do all portions
because white something all the sauce
and the plate a toes it bulbs the whole
dish out yeah they turned a burger you'd
want you know good 200 grams of meat and
ain't count burger something pretty much
get away with a half back and you're
making a dish like this it's quite
cost-effective - all right I'm really
try to keep the heat up high on that you
want some good color on that lamb while
we wait for the meat cook we can crack
on with our spuds this is for the creamy
mash so if I quickly peel these and then
all we want to do is chunk them up into
pea
says that golf ball-sized some people
cutting up a lot smaller which means up
cook quicker but they take on a lot of
water and become quite waterlogged it's
a wet match rather than a nice creamy
mesh I chose a marriage piper to use
because I think it just needs a fluffier
mesh as well Marisa Piper I don't know
it's type of potato but you can just get
white potatoes now they call in just
generic white potatoes or often
supermarkets actually labeled off as
what they're good for
all these spuds can go into our cold
salted water and the reason it's cold I
guess another tip as to how to make nan
lumpy mashed potato you wanna cook all
the way through so it's a really hard
vegetable you start with cold or
lukewarm water and as it comes up to a
boil it starts to cook right through the
core before the outsides get overcooked
so bring that up to a boil and they need
to simmer for a good 15 or 20 minutes
until they cook the way through test
them with a knife right now our
shepherd's pie that lamb mixture nice
and cooked all the way through and
golden colors starting to fall we can
add in all of our sauce ingredients so
lamb stock and tomato puree
next up tomato passata now this isn't
quite so traditional traditionally it
would just be lamb stock a lot more of
it and juiced right down but when you
guys with the factory Jamie did the
flavor combination said it works really
well with tomatoes they leave Paris
tomato yeah Bloody Marys things like
that so it's a lot softer going in there
and finally we need to add in some Lea
and Perrins so generous splash that goes
in there and then just before we leave
it to simmer gently for about an hour we
add in a bit more water now the reason
is we put the stock cube in so this is
kind of the balance of that that will
get evaporated off and you'll still be
left in the same consistency you started
with accepts her chance all that meat to
cook down and soften so all going to do
is leave our potatoes to cook for 15
minutes or so then we'll drain them and
mash them adding in butter and milk and
this needs to cook out for an hour or so
before constructor shops this is the
shepherd's pie mixture that we made
earlier it's also had time to cool but
you can see how much thicker that is now
and here are potatoes so they've been
trained you can start to mash those and
all we need to add to that is plenty of
milk you want this super super creamy
and a good knob of butter what you do
need to make sure you do is to season it
so pinch of salt yeah white pepper if
you don't want the specks why should
quite light little specks in there and
then it can go on to our chef spike this
doesn't
have to be cold makes this stage a lot
easier okay and then one other thing I
think it's absolutely beautiful and
that's a cheesy mash but we're going to
go for a little bit of blue cheese
because the savory your mommy favorite
blue cheese grate with all those other
flavors in there that tomato
Liam herrings you're not even going to
grate over now just a little bit cuz it
all melts in the oven now that can go
into an oven 180 degrees for half an
hour to crisp up a good goal just a few
very simple peas keep the veg nice and
simple because all the flavor is here
that's crisp up nicely
it smells amazing is our shepherd's pie
with a dash of Liam parents sorted man
that's good oh that is good it is a
family favorite thrown through and if
you want to give it a go at home then
click below for the full recipe